---
layout: post
title:  "/twaw {05/14/21}"
date:   2021-05-14 16:40:01 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---
## Problems I'm Solving
**Consistency in reporting:**

An issue that comes up often enough is, "Why are these numbers different?" Not just across the team, but also in my day to day work comparing results from different periods in time. Data is not static:  it drifts. Maybe there's a change in the database's recording; maybe there's a change in how a customer gets coded; regardless of the source of the change, when you're dealing with a database instead of a static document, you need to be able to *anticipate* and *explain* shifts in the data. That gets very challenging when you don't have a consistent method for reporting or a consistent method for querying.

A simple solution is to make sure that you're **annotating and saving** your queries. Annotations make it easier for a naive audience (such as a coworker who hasn't worked in your swim lane before, or YOU returning to a query you last built 3 months ago that's suddenly no longer working) to get a grasp on what's happening and where so that they can triage issues or understand your architecture. Saving your queries is the next best step:  if you've taken the time to build it, take steps to make sure you don't have to build it again! Why put yourself in a position to do the development work all over again?

Once you've got everything annotated and finalized, keeping your queries saved in an accessible format makes it much easier to revisit them when you need them. Maybe these saved queries are stored in a Google Doc, a text document, or whatever, but I've recently taken up keeping my queries saved as `.sql` files in an organized directory, and I use Atom to build them out with syntax highlighting.

From this point, I've started uploading my queries to our GitLab, so that I have access to *versions* of my queries, and I can see how I have evolved a query over time thanks to the `diff` feature that's native to git. From here, I've built out a series of **definitions** and have been using those to keep consistent language across multiple queries - this means I don't have to worry about making an error when I query for a pool of information; and it means my dashboard reporting is more consistent, too.

## Tools I'm Using or Building
#### Using:
* Atom
* GitLab

#### Building:
* A git powered query library that's versionable, accessible, and shared with my team.

## The Next Step
* Maybe onboarding the team - this would mean teaching git to a nontechnical audience
* I need to expand my use of 'definitions' so that I can develop modular querying
